root/music/music.md, before:

# Music

Files types will include the following: `{raw,wav,flac,mp3,m4a,m4b,ogg,opus,aiff,aac}`
# Music

The (digital) audio section contains any kind of sound that is contained within a file - such as music, sounds, sound effects, podcasts, audiobooks, event recordings (musicals, concerts, standup comedy), games and many others.

# Table of Contents
- [Music](#music)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Content](#content)
- [Album Art](#album-art)
- [Naming](#naming)
    - [Albums](#albums)
    - [Soundtracks](#soundtracks)
    - [SoundFX](#soundfx)
    - [Audiobooks](#audiobooks)
    - [Podcasts](#podcasts)
- [Resources](#resources) 

# Content

| `Folder`    | `Contents`                                                                |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| books       | recordings of books read by a person (aka audiobooks)                     |
| music       | albums, other data                                                        |
| playlists   | radio streams, music playlists, ...                                       |
| podcasts    | audio-only broadcasts... alternative name: `netcasts`                     |
| recordings  | voice memos, studio recordings, usually RAW wave audio                    |
| soundfx     | audio effects, computer notifications                                     |
| soundtracks | audio content related to other media like movies, tv-shows and videogames |

# Album Art

&nbsp; Image formats: `jpg, gif, png or bmp`  
&nbsp; Resolution: `1024`
&nbsp; For iPhone controller: `320KB`  
&nbsp; Dimensions: `500x500`  

```naming
artist-album-yyyy-pixels
```
# Naming
 
### Albums
```
[artist_name] / [album_name] (YYYY) / [TRK#.] [Track_Name] [feat. Artist_01]

(track w/ 1 artist)
Dreamville - Revenge of the Dreamers (2020) / 01. Under The Sun Feat. J. Cole

(track w/ 2 artists)
Dreamville - Revenge of the Dreamers (2020) / 02. Down Bad Feat. JID & Bas

(track w/ 3 artists)
Dreamville - Revenge of the Dreamers (2020) / 03. Sleep Deprived Feat. Lute, Omen & Mez

(multi-disc album) 
All Things Must Pass/ Disc 1/ 01. I'd Have You Anytime.mp3
        ...
All Things Must Pass/ Disc 2/ 01. Beware of Darkness.mp3
```

### Soundtracks
```
[Movie] - [Album Name]

Gaurdians of the Galaxy - Awesome Mix Vol. 1
    1.  Hooked on a Feeling.mp3
    2.  Go All The Way.mp3
    3.  Spirit In The Sky.mp3 
        ...
The Crow - Original Motion Picture Soundtrack 
    01. Burn.mp3
    02. Golgotha Tenement Blues.mp3
    03. Hello Feat. Artist01 & Artist02
  ------
For embedded data:
    a. "Album artist for each track should be should be listed in "various artist"
    b. "Artist" for each track is the artist that performed that particular track.
```

### soundFX
```
[source]/ [sound]

soundSFX/ Fountain
soundSFX/ Wind
```

### Audiobooks
```
[book-title] by [author] (YYYY)


```

### Podcasts
```
[podcast]/ [episode name] - [podcaster-name]

Free Thought Podcasts/ A Conversation About Guns - Clark Neily
```
# Resources  
1.  [musicbrainz](https://picard.musicbrainz.org/)
2.  [mp3tag](https://www.mp3tag.de/en/)
3.  [wiki soundtrack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundtrack)
4.  [wiki album](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundtrack_album)
5.  [wiki video game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_game_music)
6.  [doscofs](https://www.discogs.com/) - A database and marketplace for music.  
7.  [hydrogenaud](https://hydrogenaud.io/) - A community for discussion of audio technology.  
8.  [beets](http://beets.io/) - A command-line based music tagger and cataloger.  
9.  [Library Mgmt](https://bit.ly/3THGeIP)  
10. [Image files Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image)  
11. [Naming Digital ArtWork](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Work_of_art)  
12. [Genre List](https://www.allmusic.com/moods) - A comprehensicve genre list for tag use  
---

<div style="text-align: center;">

[Back to Top](#music)

</div>

Commit message:

update documents readme and delete library folder

root/music/music.md, after:

# Music

Files types will include the following: `{raw,wav,flac,mp3,m4a,m4b,ogg,opus,aiff,aac}`

The music folder is a (digital) audio section that includes any kind of sound that is contained within a file - such as music, sounds, sound effects, podcasts, audiobooks, event recordings (musicals, concerts, standup comedy), games and many others.

This folder may contain other files related to music such as: album art, track info, artist info, genre, etc...

> Naming convention for albums, soundtracks, audiobooks, and podcasts do not conform to the guidelines  outlined. This decision was made to maintain the collections' structure as intended by the original creator & makes it easier to navigate these files on a music playing device.

# Table of Contents
- [Music](#music)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Content](#content)
- [Album Art](#album-art)
- [Naming](#naming)
    - [Albums](#albums)
    - [Soundtracks](#soundtracks)
    - [SoundFX](#soundfx)
    - [Audiobooks](#audiobooks)
    - [Podcasts](#podcasts)
- [Resources](#resources) 

# Content

| `Folder`    | `Contents`                                                                |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| books       | recordings of books read by a person (aka audiobooks)                     |
| music       | albums, other data                                                        |
| playlists   | radio streams, music playlists, ...                                       |
| podcasts    | audio-only broadcasts... alternative name: `netcasts`                     |
| recordings  | voice memos, studio recordings, usually RAW wave audio                    |
| soundfx     | audio effects, computer notifications like fire, crashes, screaming, clapping, etc.                                     |
| soundtracks | audio content related to other media like movies, tv-shows and videogames |

# Album Art

&nbsp; Image formats: `jpg, gif, png or bmp`  
&nbsp; Resolution: `1024`
&nbsp; For iPhone controller: `320KB`  
&nbsp; Dimensions: `500x500`  

```naming
[artist]-[album]-[YYYYMMDD]-[pixels]-[dimensions]

michael-jackson-thriller-19821129-1024-500x500
```
# Naming
 
### Albums
```
[artist_name] / [album_name] (YYYY) / [TRK#.] [Track_Name] [feat. Artist_01]

(track w/ 1 artist)
Dreamville - Revenge of the Dreamers (2020) / 01. Under The Sun Feat. J. Cole

(track w/ 2 artists)
Dreamville - Revenge of the Dreamers (2020) / 02. Down Bad Feat. JID & Bas

(track w/ 3 artists)
Dreamville - Revenge of the Dreamers (2020) / 03. Sleep Deprived Feat. Lute, Omen & Mez

(multi-disc album) 
All Things Must Pass/ Disc 1/ 01. I'd Have You Anytime.mp3
        ...
All Things Must Pass/ Disc 2/ 01. Beware of Darkness.mp3
```
### Soundtracks
```
[Movie] - [Album Name]

Gaurdians of the Galaxy - Awesome Mix Vol. 1
    01.  Hooked on a Feeling.mp3
    02.  Go All The Way.mp3
    03.  Spirit In The Sky.mp3 
        ...
The Crow - Original Motion Picture Soundtrack 
    01. Burn.mp3
    02. Golgotha Tenement Blues.mp3
    03. Hello Feat. Artist01 & Artist02
  ------
For embedded data:
    a. "Album artist for each track should be should be listed in "various artist"
    b. "Artist" for each track is the artist that performed that particular track.
```

### soundFX
```
[source]/ [sound]

soundSFX/ fountain
soundSFX/ wind
```

### Audiobooks
```
[book-title] by [author] (YYYY)

Pride and prejudice by Jane Austen (1813)

```

### Podcasts
```
[podcast]/ [episode name] - [podcaster-name]

Free Thought Podcasts/ A Conversation About Guns - Clark Neily
```
# Resources  
- [musicbrainz](https://picard.musicbrainz.org/)
- [mp3tag](https://www.mp3tag.de/en/)
- [wiki soundtrack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundtrack)
- [wiki album](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundtrack_album)
- [wiki video game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_game_music)
- [doscofs](https://www.discogs.com/) - A database and marketplace for music.  
- [hydrogenaud](https://hydrogenaud.io/) - A community for discussion of audio technology.  
- [beets](http://beets.io/) - A command-line based music tagger and cataloger.  
- [music management blog](https://www.blisshq.com/music-library-management-blog/categories/digital%20music/)  
- [Naming Digital ArtWork](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Work_of_art)  
- [Genre List](https://www.allmusic.com/moods) - A comprehensicve genre list for tag use  
---

<div style="text-align: center;">

[Back to Top](#music)

</div>
