README.md, before:

# naming-convention

local file naming style guide

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Table of Contents

- [naming convention](#naming-convention)
- [Background](#background)
- [Naming Rules](#Naming-Rules)
- [Folder Structure and Content](#Folder-Structure-and-Content)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [License](#license)

## Background

file names are unique entities that identify the its location in a file system. The naming convention is meant to be a systematic method for naming files to make them easier organize. There are OS-specific syntax rules to consider for name specifications.

## Naming Rules

list of technical conventions and restrictions chosen to maximize portability include:

- no special signs (e.g., * . ” / \ [ ] : ; | = , < ? > & $ # ! ‘( ) { })
- names are written in lowercase letters.
- words are separated by a hyphen (-).
- maximum length (with pathname) of 256 characters
- date standard formats, [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) (e.g. timestamp with YYYYMMDD)

## Folder Structure and Content

fFolder structure, content categories stored in each folder, and accepted file formats.

| `Items`                                                        | `File Contents`                                             | `File Extensions`             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| [Archive](../../naming-conventions/root/archives/README.md)    | Websites, datasets, backups, resources past retion date     | gz, zip, gzip                 |
| [Music](../../naming-conventions/root/Music/README.md)         | Music, SoundFX, Podcasts, Audiobooks, Recordings, album art | mp3, ogg, aac, jpg            |
| [Documents](../../naming-conventions/root/Documents/README.md) | Notes, Personal documents (Invoices, letters, emails)       | pdf,doc,ppt,xls               |
| [Games](../../naming-conventions/root/Games/README.md)         | Computer, arcade, any-other, extention packs                | exe                           |
| [Images](../../naming-conventions/root/Images/README.md)       | Photography, Art, memes, etc                                | raw, jpg, gif                 |
| [Library](../../naming-conventions/root/Library/README.md)     | Books, writings, scientific papers, articles, magazines     | epub, mobi, pdf               |
| [Software](../../naming-conventions/root/Software/README.md)   | Applications, mobile apps, OS's, Typography                 | exe                           |
| [Video](../../naming-conventions/root/Video/README.md)         | Movies, Shows, Tutorials                                    | mp4, avi, flac, m4a, m4b, ogg |
## Resources

- [ISO-639-1/B codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes)
- [ISO-639-2/B codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-2_codes)

## Contact

reach out

- email: [vsulliv@pm.me](mailto:vsulliv@pm.me)
- github: [github/vlsulliv](https://www.github.com/vlsulliv)

## License

created under the [MIT](/LICENSE) license

---

Made with ❤️ by Vince

Commit message:

document naming conventions for library, software, and video directories

README.md, after:

# naming-convention

local file naming style guide

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Table of Contents

- [naming convention](#naming-convention)
- [Background](#background)
- [Naming Rules](#Naming-Rules)
- [Folder Structure and Content](#Folder-Structure-and-Content)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [License](#license)

## Background

file names are unique entities that identify the its location in a file system. The naming convention is meant to be a systematic method for naming files to make them easier organize. There are OS-specific syntax rules to consider for name specifications.

## Naming Rules

list of technical conventions and restrictions chosen to maximize portability include:

- no special signs (e.g., * . ” / \ [ ] : ; | = , < ? > & $ # ! ‘( ) { })
- names are written in lowercase letters.
- words are separated by a hyphen (-).
- maximum length (with pathname) of 256 characters
- date standard formats, [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) (e.g. timestamp with YYYYMMDD)
- kebab case: will be used for all file names (ex: auto-clear-mocks)
- pascal Case: will be used for all folder names (ex: TestNamePattern)
- increment with zeros (ex: 001,  002,  003)

## Resources

- [ISO-639-1/B codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes)
- [ISO-639-2/B codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-2_codes)

## Contact

reach out

- email: [vsulliv@pm.me](mailto:vsulliv@pm.me)
- github: [github/vlsulliv](https://www.github.com/vlsulliv)

## License

created under the [MIT](/LICENSE) license

---

<div style="text-align: center;">

[Back to Top](#naming-convention)

</div>
