root/root.readme.md, before:

# Root


- [Root](#root)
- [Folder Structure and Content](#Folder-Structure-and-Content)
- [Date](#date)
- [Naming Case](#naming-case)
- [Increment](#increment)

## Folder Structure and Content

folder structure, content categories stored in each folder, and accepted file formats.

| `Items`                                                        | `File Contents`                                             | `File Extensions`             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| [Archive](../../naming-conventions/root/archives/README.md)    | Websites, datasets, backups, resources past retion date     | gz, zip, gzip                 |
| [Music](../../naming-conventions/root/Music/README.md)         | Music, SoundFX, Podcasts, Audiobooks, Recordings, album art | mp3, ogg, aac, jpg            |
| [Documents](../../naming-conventions/root/Documents/README.md) | Notes, Personal documents (Invoices, letters, emails)       | pdf,doc,ppt,xls               |
| [Games](../../naming-conventions/root/Games/README.md)         | Computer, arcade, any-other, extention packs                | exe                           |
| [Images](../../naming-conventions/root/Images/README.md)       | Photography, Art, memes, etc                                | raw, jpg, gif                 |
| [Library](../../naming-conventions/root/Library/README.md)     | Books, writings, scientific papers, articles, magazines     | epub, mobi, pdf               |
| [Software](../../naming-conventions/root/Software/README.md)   | Applications, mobile apps, OS's, Typography                 | exe                           |
| [Video](../../naming-conventions/root/Video/README.md)         | Movies, Shows, Tutorials                                    | mp4, avi, flac, m4a, m4b, ogg |

## File Name Construction

File names will consist of multiple sections and the order of each section should be consistently applied. Sections should be written in the following order:

 1. Date/ date-range
 2. Study title/ Project name
 3. Location of data collection
 4. Version number
 5. Contents of the file
 6. Name/ initials


---

<div style="text-align: center;">

[Back to Top](#root)

</div>

Commit message:

update project readme and root readme

root/root.readme.md, after:

# root

files are categorized and sorted into 8 top categories. An additional category 'workspace' or 'collections' can be included for directories or projects that contain related files of different type/extension.

>NOTE: these files are stored on a external storage system. the root directory is used to identify it as the top directory in the tree but is not related to the root directory root directory (c:) on the OS.

## Table of Contents

- [root](#root)
- [Folder Structure and Content](#Folder-Structure-and-Content)
- [Date](#date)
- [Naming Case](#naming-case)
- [Increment](#increment)

## Folder Structure and Content  

| `Directories`                                                  | `File Contents`                                             | `File Extensions`             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| [Archive](../../naming-conventions/root/archives/README.md)    | Websites, datasets, backups, resources past retion date     | gz, zip, gzip                 |
| [Music](../../naming-conventions/root/Music/README.md)         | Music, SoundFX, Podcasts, Audiobooks, Recordings, album art | mp3, ogg, aac, jpg            |
| [Documents](../../naming-conventions/root/Documents/README.md) | Notes, Personal documents (Invoices, letters, emails)       | pdf,doc,ppt,xls               |
| [Games](../../naming-conventions/root/Games/README.md)         | Computer, arcade, any-other, extention packs                | exe                           |
| [Images](../../naming-conventions/root/Images/README.md)       | Photography, Art, memes, etc                                | raw, jpg, gif                 |
| [Library](../../naming-conventions/root/Library/README.md)     | Books, writings, scientific papers, articles, magazines     | epub, mobi, pdf               |
| [Software](../../naming-conventions/root/Software/README.md)   | Applications, mobile apps, OS's, Typography                 | exe                           |
| [Video](../../naming-conventions/root/Video/README.md)         | Movies, Shows, Tutorials                                    | mp4, avi, flac, m4a, m4b, ogg |

## File Name Components

Components will ensure each file is a unique entity in the file system and provide descriptive information in relation to the content it contains. File names will consist of the following components:

- `date`
- `title`
- `location`
- `version number`
- `increment`
- `extension`

The components included in a file name and their order will vary between directory.

---

<div style="text-align: center;">

[Back to Top](#root)

</div>
